How do you react to a violation of ethics?
What if you see someone violating some kind of unspoken law, which is a violation of ethics or integrity,
things like that.
Most companies, most good companies will want to hire stand up people, people who will stand up to
violations of ethics or the company's interests or lack of integrity, things like that.
And if a company does nothing about these about violations, think about really think about whether
you want to be working for this and for such a company.
Probably not, because then if something happens to you and you see something, then you will never
be in a safe space.
You will never be in a safe position to report a violation of ethics.
Right.
So if a company asks you a question on how you would react, talk to them about how you would follow
the chain of command.
And it's all based on workplace safety and workplace training is what your chain of command is.
When you see someone violating a certain law or violating something within the company, then you want
to report that to your immediate supervisor.
And if your immediate supervisor is the one, then you want to go up the chain or to the H.R. or talk
to the H.R. or someone in the company to see what the correct chain of command is.
And usually all this is outlined in training.
So your answer to such a question would ideally consist of something along these lines.
I would follow the chain of command and report it to the appropriate manager, and if I didn't know
who to report it to, I would talk to the HR and see who I should report it to.
But I assume that your training, the workplace training, covers violation of ethics and what constitutes
violation of ethics.
You can also talk about any incident.
If you've seen such an incident, if you've been part of it, then you can also talk about that too.
And it would serve as a good example during the call.
So during the interview.
So you're not just saying hypotheticals, but you're giving a concrete example of a situation where
it happened to you.
And again, the start approach, what happened?
What was the reason for that?
What did you do, what the action was that you took and what the end result was?
So that's a good way to back up your hypothetical response with hard data driven example.